world global internet traffic?
higher and lower tier isps

ip :
internet protocols are concerned about the format of packets that are sent and received among routes and end systems.

Internet :
infrastructure that provides services to applications.

End Systems attached to the Internet provides an API - that specifies how an End System asking the Internet Infrastructure to deliver the data to another End Systems

Suppose
Alice wants to send a letter to Bob using the postal service. Alice, of course,
can’t just write the letter (the data) and drop the letter out her window. Instead,
the postal service requires that Alice put the letter in an envelope; write Bob’s
full name, address, and zip code in the center of the envelope; seal the envelope;
put a stamp in the upper-right-hand corner of the envelope; and finally, drop the
envelope into an official postal service mailbox. Thus, the postal service has its
own “postal service API,” or set of rules, that Alice must follow to have the
postal service deliver her letter to Bob. In a similar manner, the Internet has an
API that the program sending data must follow to have the Internet deliver the
data to the program that will receive the data.
The postal service, of course, provides more than one service to its customers.
It provides express delivery, reception confirmation, ordinary use, and many more
services. In a similar manner, the Internet provides multiple services to its applications.
When you develop an Internet application, you too must choose one of the
Internet’s services for your application

digital subscriber line -dsl

Propagating ElectroMagnetic Waves or Optical Pulses across a physical Medium

Twisted Pair - the wires are twisted to ignore the electrical interference from similar pair close by. 

Queying Delay - Packet Loss

Trace-Route Program

end to end connection

Frequency Divide Multiplexer - FDM
Time Divide Multiplexer - TDM

The amount of data that can be transferred per second - throughput
nodal processing delay, queue delay, transmission delay, propagation delay == total nodal delay

Network Layer ?
Link Layer ?ew



--------------------------------------------------------------
Session - 2nd 
Date 28 july 2016
Time 5.12 pm - 7.12pm
--------------------------------------------------------------

